History between the end of EU3 and the beginning of Vic2. See more on the subreddit's wiki at /r/savs (19/4/19 - Actually don't, it's currently not as up to date as this)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Europe:

British Isles:

Eire and Alba have long bickered, despite the continued danger of Aengland to their south. Ireland recently captured and claimed the city of Glaschu,
one of Alba's largest and most important ones, and so Alba seems to be on its back feet for now. Aengland, stripped decades ago of its dominance in 
the Islands, has spent the intervening years rebuilding and industrialising. It will soon be ready to ressetablish hegemony, and Cymru will likely be
its first target.

Aengland: House Iserning
Monarch - Leofwin II. Born 10 July, 1779. Age: 57. Took the throne on 10 July, 1794
Heir - Alfstan (regnal name Alfstan III). Born 15 October, 1826. Age: 9.
The Godwins died out in the early 1700s.

Alba: House MacDhungail
Monarch - Iain IV. Born 6 December 1782. Age: 53. Took the throne on 22 July, 1819
Heir - Seumas (regnal name Seumas III). Born 30 January, 1805. Age: 30.

Eire: House Dalcais
Monarch - Constaintín II. Born 3 September, 1781. Age: 51. Took the throne on 17 September, 1820
Heir - Cathaoir (regnal name Cathaoir I). Born 23 November, 1803. Age: 33.



France: 

France and Aquitania were long rivals, but, beginning in the early 17th century, Aquitanian and Germanic rulers were able to play French nobility against
their rulers, and little by little, France was disassembled. Today, the king, Louis XV of the house de Tournus, holds only a small domain against the Alps.
If France can avoid the attention of its non-French neighbours, it may be able to reclaim its rightful territories and its place on the world stage. But
the other French nobles may find a way to claim the French crown for themselves, and use it to establish hegemony instead of the king.

	King: Louis XV de Tournus, b. 29 October, 1811. Age: 24. Took the throne on 7 June, 1828. Married to the daughter of the Count of Burgundy.
	Heir: Jean de Tournus, b. 14 January, 1817. Age: 18. Younger brother of the king.



Aquitania:

While it has had its share of war and turmoil, the House De Melgueil has become used to luxury and plenty. Two centuries of near-domestic peace will soon
come to an end, as a revolution of political thinking is coming. Already, philosphers and natural scientists across Western Europe are turning toward a
new line of thought: liberalism. The ossified political structures of Aquitania will come under attack. Will the monarchy survive the storm?



Helvetia:

A confederation of local republics who rotate leadership in the general Helvetian Republic, this country of valleys and peaks in the Alps has long existed
on the periphery of the German sphere and the Holy Roman Empire. They left the Empire after a short war in the 1720s, during which time their military
prowess was recognised by then Holy Roman Emperor, Maximilian II Filip of Bohemia, who allowed them to leave the Empire as part of a peace deal with the
Meuse League of Wallonia, Brabant, Lorraine, and France. After the War of the Meuse League (1722-1725), Helvetia further developed its republican traditions
and became a center for liberal thought, and the Eltesters of the Republic maneuvered the confederation to peace and prosperity. However, in the wake of
the Hispanian Revolution and the reaction to the ideals of liberalism, monarchs of Europe have begun to look on Helvetia with suspicion, seeing it as a source
of the liberal plague.



Iberia:

Hispania has only recently lost its colonies, its prestige, and its absolute hegemony over Iberia, and is eager to get them back. Navarra and Galicia have had a 
tenuous independence from their large neighbour, and who knows how long that state of affairs will continue. Portugal, as with the other Iberian 
countries, was under the rule of Hispania for centuries, but has fared somewhat better.



Italy:

The Kingdom of Naples is the main power on the Peninsula, and has recently been expanding north into the minour Italian states. The Kingdom of Naples is the main 
power on the Peninsula, and has recently been expanding north into the minour Italian states. In mid-December of 1835, after negotiations with the Grand Duke of Tuscany, 
Giancarlo II Miravelli, broke down, the King of Naples, Giuseppe I Salenino, declared war citing "insults against the crown of Naples and against all Italians." Naples now
seeks to conquer Tuscany and solidify its position as hegemon of the peninsula.

Older history for Naples and the South - In the 11th and 12th centuries, the regions south of Rome were a shifting morass of alliances and power struggles among local
nobility and trade republics, the Pope, the Roman Emperors, the Republic of Pisa, and the Kingdom of Sicily (which incidentally nearly passed into the hands of a
cadet branch of the House of Melgueil). Naples itself remained under Pisan control until 1406, when the latter's failing fortunes made it possible for local nobility
to take control with the support of Sicily. Initially invested as a Duke, Roger Loffredo and his house quickly asserted control over the whole of the peninsula south
of the Papal holdings, and vied frequently with them for control over Benevento (which at last passed into Neapolitan hands in the late 16th century). The Loffredo
line ended with the death of Leopoldo III in 1611, and a cadet branch, the Salenini, assumed the throne. Sicily was absorbed into Neapolitan holdings by personal
union in 1731, at which time friendship between Pope Clement V and Alberto II paved the way for coronation prior to the marriage, so as to ensure
that the bride was not of a higher rank than the groom. Naples feuded with most nearby countries - abortive wars of expansion into North Africa in the 18th century,
failed attempts to take Venetian Mediterranean holdings (prior to the latter's fall from greatness) and territories across the Straits of Otranto in the Roman Empire,
among others. Only on the Peninsula did Naples meet with success, conquering Umbria during the course of the late 17th century and Romagna in the early 19th century
(finalized by the Treaty of Bagnacavallo in 1827, whose circumstances and legitimacy are the subject of much debate). The Sicilian nobility have generally been given
rather free rein to rule as they see fit, partly because previous Salenini had other things to focus on, but Giuseppe believed that the island had more to contribute.
As such, since acceding to the throne in 1817 upon the death of his father, Orazio, he has been working to reduce the autonomy of the island, though much is still in
progress. The Kingdom embarked on colonial adventures to follow its successes in exploration in the 15th and 16th centuries, and as such holds some lands associated
with the slave trade in western Africa.

King of Naples: Giuseppe I Salenino, b. 27 May, 1782. Age: 53. Assumed the throne in 1817 at age 35.
Heir: Franciscu, b. 1 December, 1819. Age: 16


Germany: 

When the Imperial War (1829-1835) ended, it left the power structure at the center of Europe in shambles. The northern German states, led by the duchies of Brandenburg and
Brunswick, were able to hold off Bavarian troops and their allies, and thus prevent their own reincorporation into the ossified Holy Roman Empire. The Peace of Augsburg
on February 13, 1835, formally dissolved the Empire but left Bavaria, its longtime leader, in a strong position with control over many of the southern constituent
states. The collection of duchies, counties, bishoprics, and free cities of the north agreed to form an economic and military union to protect both against a revanchist
Bavaria and outside threats. However, little progress has been made, as the leaders of the north bicker over details. They are currently forming into two factions,
aligning with their closest leader - Brunswick or Brandenburg. The situation is tense between these two, and will likely erupt in violence. What is even worse is that
this is coming at a time when the inhabitants of what is increasingly being called "Germany," rather than any individual state, are coming to understand a national 
heritage that defies political borders. Any of the three major German powers may try to claim the title of "Ruler of all Germany," which will no doubt lead to war again.

Brunswick: Karl Ludwig von Edemissen (b. 1800, age 36), also heir apparent to the Duchy of Hannover
Brandenburg: Ernst II von Sperenberg-Kallinchen (b. 1779, age 56)
Bavaria: Georg Friedrich von Satzenhofen (b. 1785, age 51)


Low countries:

The Duchies of Wallonia and Brabant survived French domination and expanded in the vacuum it left when it receded. Both are well-industrialised, as is the
Kingdom of the Netherlands, which was only recently united by the Duke of Holland.


Bohemia:

A venerable kingdom and longtime power structure in central Europe, Bohemia was the most prominent member of the Holy Roman Empire, although it began drifting apart politically
in the 18th century due to the growing German character of the Empire. This, combined with its location, meant that it, like Austria, did not take part in the Imperial War. A
fairly industrialised country, it became the head of a personal union with Hungary upon the ascension of Ladislaus IV. Bohemia has long had close ties with Silesia, and exercises
tight control over that country and over Saxony on its northwestern border, both of which serve to separate the Czech heartland from the Duchy of Brandenburg. More can be found
on the forum thread or in the wiki at https://www.reddit.com/r/savs/wiki/bohemia


Nordic countries:

Norwegian King: Håkon IV Erling (House of Erling claims to descend from the legendary Yngling dynasty. b.1817, 1836 age 19), heir Olav (brother, b. 1825)
Swedish King: Karl XIII von Hannover-Stenkiling (b.1818, 1836 age 18), heir Frederick August (brother, b.1820)
Danish King: Christian VII Brockenhuus-Wettin (b.1795, 1836 age 41), heir Margaret (only child, b.1817)
Finnish King: Eerikki VI Haataja (b.1775, 1836 age 51), heir Voitto (b.1801)

Skåne control history:

* To 1613: Denmark
* 1613 to 1828: Sweden
* 1828 to present: Denmark


Poland: (To be expanded upon)

The szlachta (Polish nobility) and the Sejm still rule. The monarchy is hereditary, but the Sejm is quite powerful. King of
Poland: Kasimir Francizek Widzowski (b. 1792, age 44, r. 1813-). Heir apparent: Jan Tomaz (b. 1817, age 18)


Austria:

A principality ruled by the ancient line of House von Rasso, Austria is the largest and outermost state of the old Holy Roman Empire, though it remained uninvolved in the
Imperial War. The current High Prince of Austria, Friedrich III, is the head of a sprawling house in a contained realm. The Principality has long had stability and peace,
even as war raged on their borders to the northwest. Bohemia and Bavaria constantly bicker over who should be allowed favour in the country, something which the von Rassos
have managed to exploit to their own advantage. Austria is a multiethnic country, although the Principality only acquired the lands of the Slovenes and Croats under the
rule of Friedrich's father, Hermann V, in the 1770s and 1780s. The von Rassos will no doubt look to expand as their prestige grows.


Croatia, Serbia, and Montenegro:

Ardeal:

Moldavia and Wallachia:


The Roman Empire:

Long sundered from its western counterpart, the Eastern Roman Empire, now rarely called that, carries the ancient standard of the illustrious, ancient Roman Empire.
While it has had its ups and downs in its conflicts against the Muslims, it can legitimately claim to be one of the very oldest states in the world. Since the dawn of
the 18th century, when its age-old enemy in Sunni Armenia held sway over territory even in Thrace and Bulgaria, the Romans have been reclaiming their traditional
territory in the western half of Asia Minour. The apogee of the Empire in recent years was in the period under the reign of the controversial Basileus Ioannes XI Melisurgos
(1756-1783). Ioannes was a skilled general and earned respect and renown for his leadership in the wars which reconquered much of Anatolia.

As his armies advanced, they found that Muslims formed a large proportion of the population in many of the reclaimed themes. Intending to give the Armenians and other 
inhabitants the opportunity to leave peacefully, Ioannes issued the Decree of Caesarea. This order officially dispossessed any Muslims who didn't convert to Christianity 
of their land in the newly reconquered lands. Unfortunately, despite many historical accounts of conversion, Greek-speaking Anatolians violently attacked neighbouring 
villages of Armenian Muslims, causing widespread death, panic, and destruction. The Anatolians targeted converters and non-converters alike, and succeeded in killing or 
driving off most of the Armenian populations.

And yet, the Anatolians would be the victims of the same tactics just a generation later in 1813 when, under the reign of Basileus Demetrios II (1794-1819), Armenian armies
reconquered Anatole, comprising the themes of Boukellarion, Paphlagonia, and Anatolikon. The Sha of Armenia, Musegh IV (1799-1828), sanctioned these retributive actions
against the Orthodox Anatolians, though it did not result in such a great eradication of inhabitants. After retaking Anatole, a resettlement program saw Armenians come
into the majority once again in the east, while there was less penetration in the west.

The Roman Empire lost the Anatole War with the Peace of Amasea in 1813 due to a number of key battles that saw Armenian commanders make successful and devastating use of
newly-developed European military technology and tactics against the Romans, who continue to be behind the curve in terms of military advancement.

(The Melisurgos dynasty came to power with the accession of Ioannes VIII to the throne on 6 June, 1631.)


Smolensk and the Russian Tsardom: 

Out of the morass of petty princes and constant war among the Great Russians rose just two families: the Muscovite Konstantinovs and the Smolenskii Sitnikovs, who through
military and diplomatic strength and success subdued the other nobles. However, despite numerous attempts on both sides, neither was ever able to subdue the other. While
Smolensk has the advantage in terms of population and military size, Russia is the seat of the Patriarch of the Orthodox faith of the Great Russian people, and as such, the
powerful religious establishment in Smolensk acts as a significant check on Smolenskii ambitions to expand at the expense of Russia. Recent warring in the region has been
largely inconclusive, with only minor border changes, and both countries are licking their wounds.

The Cossacks maintain nominal control over the lower Don but pay tribute to the Smolenskiis, a reversal of fortunes compared to two or three centuries ago which they much
distaste. The Principality of Vitebsk, on the other hand, is a close ally of Russia - so close as to be an autonomous vassal of the latter -, being intermarried with the
Konstantinov line. Indeed, the Tsar is next in line to succeed the Knyaz of Vitebsk.

Rulers

Russia: Tsar Feodor II Konstantinov (b. 1794, age 41), heir Vsevolod (b. 1828, age 8)
Smolensk: Korol Aleksandr I Sitnikov (b. 1782, age 53), heir Aleksandr (b. 1803, age 32)
Cossack Hetmanate: Hetman Pavlo Vyhovsky (b. 1799, age 36)
Vitebsk: Kynaz Pyotr IV Konstantinov (b. 1826, age 9), currently without issue - heir with best claim is Tsar Feodor II
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

North Ameriga:

Founded by the crown of Holland as one of the first settlements in the New World, New Holland grew to encompass the vast and inhospitable forests of the north-east as well
as the more arable farmlands cleared from them near the coast and along the many rivers. As one of the oldest and most populous countries on the continent, it is in a good
position to expand south and west to gain access to fairer lands.

Dabimon, founded by French settlers on the western end of the Native Lakes, is comes from the Longparlant (OTL Ojibwe) name for "Landing", the name they gave to 
the first settlement founded on Lac Auglais, which would later become the Dabimonais capital, Tête du Lac. Encompassing the western end of the Native Lakes system,
Dabimon pioneers are poised to venture west into the Great Plains of the interior of North Ameriga.

Vestland (independence gained on 1 May, 1779), one of several descendant countries of Norwegian and other Nordic colonists, occupies a small part of the Amerigan East Coast
and is positioned quite closely to the Shawnee Confederation. Despite its small size, it controls prime farmlands and beautiful forests.

The Shawnee Confederation, the only native polity to survive the European onslaught of the previous centuries, will have to struggle in the face of its neighbours
who hungrily eye the land of the Shawnee and their vassals, the Iroquois and Cherokee.

Margaria (independence gained on 1 May, 1762) is another Norwegian-descendant country which is located in the south of the the continent, its economy founded on slave-oriented
farming, particularly cotton. The slaves are numerous and may begin to develop a national identity of their own.

Occupying the southern borders of the Great Plains, Ginnaecer (derived from older Aenglisc ginne "wide" + aecer "expanse") is a slave-owning country colonised by
Aengland at the zenith of its power before it was stripped of its glory. It may be that Aengland will seek to reclaim its errant colony, should it ever regain its
former power.

Califiana, colonised by Hispanians in search of gold and glory, occupies the southwestern corner of the continent. The coastal region is lush, but away into the mountains,
the land becomes arid and hot.

Along the rainy parts of the western coast of the continent sits the Skamisc nation. A mix of Aenglisc and native peoples, it was settled by pioneers and those seeking
new opportunities in new parts of the continent. It was thus never truly part of the Aenglisc colonial system, as it was too far removed from Aengland to administrate.
Because of this distance, however, it is sparsely populated and poor. However, under the right circumstances, it can come to be a world power.

Beginning in the 1770s, loud voices in the Aquitanian colony of Nova Aquitania demanding independence grew steadily more violent, culminating in a rebellion
that defeated Aquitanian forces at the battle of Pilera (July 21, 1776), near Totonaca. Shortly after the defeat and retreat of his most trusted general in the colonies,
King Loui I signed a treaty with the rebels, securing their independence. Mexika was born.

Shortly after the independence of Mexika, disputes broke out between the government in the newly-renamed city of Tenochtitlan and its eastern territories, the former
domain of the Maya. In a drawn out war from 1782-5, the Yucatecan rebels succeeded in convincing Tenochtitlan that it was more trouble than it was worth to put down
their rebellion. The 1785 Treaty of Minatitlan formalised the independence of the Yucatan Republic. However, it left unresolved territorial disputes between the two countries.

Factionalism caused the post-1801 (12 February, 1801) independence of the Norwegian Amerigan colonies centered around the isthmus connecting the rest of North Ameriga to South
Ameriga to split into three: Mankemmark, Midtenland, and Hoyekysten (technically part of South Ameriga). These countries are small, poor, and sparsely populated, but occupy a
strategic position.

A nation speaking an Aenglisc creole, Firgene, located on the island of the same name, attained its independence in 1781 (9 August, 1781), while Aengland was busy fighting wars
at home against Alba and Eire. It is the only island nation in the Caribbean currently free.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

South Ameriga:

Located along the northern coast of South Ameriga, Gidan is a country inhabited primarily by descendants of slaves brought to the region by French settlers. When France as a unified
kingdom was dismantled, Aengland attempted to fill the void. Its independence movement began with numerous localised slave revolts in the first half of 1799 outside of what would
eventually become the capital of Pulominaster and the coastal areas to the west. Out of one of the rebellions arose the brothers who would become famous as the liberators of Gidan:
Luc, Gustave, and Dénis Efa. Throughout 1799 and 1800, they seized Aenglisc and remaining armouries and armed slaves who dispossessed, both peacefully and violently, their French
masters. Certain nobles in the court of French King Louis XV feel that, when France regains its glory, Gidan should be returned to her.

Inca - united July 11, 1821

Uilscyr (pronounced "Wilsheer" - see the pronunciation guide)- One of the largest countries in South Ameriga, Uilscyr gained independence in 1759 with the Treaty of Albold, along the
Jordrac River. It is a strikingly multi-ethnic country: Aenglisc-speaking Uilsc ("Wilsh") by and large dominate the cleared countryside in the north and inland in the south, with many
Afro-Uilsc inhabitants who exhibit a syncretism of African slave cultures while still being an integral part of many Uilsc communities. There are also many indigenous peoples, who,
although treated harshly under colonial rule, have been treated well by the country in which they now live. Along the northeastern coast are the Hispanian-speaking Tareconians, who
live in large cities and maintain a distinct identity, and the southeastern coast is home to the Lutzan, who were cut off from their colonial masters in France over a century and a half
ago. All peoples of today's Uilscyr worked together to free themselves of the Aenglisc yoke, but now without a common enemy, the Uilsc may find themselves in the midst of ethnic strife
in the coming years.

Altallia

Ysun

Argentina

Lonko

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Middle East

The eastern terminus of the Mediterranean Sea and target of the Crusade in 1120, the Levant was for more than 400 years the home of the Frankish kingdom of Jerusalem. In 1583, after 
years of internal strife and continual conflict with its neighbours, the kingdom was finally conquered by Persia. Many of the Catholic peoples fled back west. Since then, the region
has continued to be a hotbed of unrest, with inter-ethnic and inter-religious conflict common. It has also been the object of squabbles between Persia, Armenia, and Egypt, and thus
the formerly great cities of the Ancient World are but shadows of themselves. Various peoples are present in the region, from Frankish-speaking Outremer remnants, Jews, Arabic-speaking
Sunnis, Druze, Shiite speakers of other languages such as Aramaic, Kurdish, and Turkish.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SOME MORE HERE

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Volturnia:

This is the term given to the region comprising the islands of Papua, Teralarga, Naffaroako Berria, and the near Pacific. It is derived from the Latin for "Southeast," and
 first appeared on maps of the Albannach cartographer and explorer, Ealar Cananach, beginning in 1813.
